# Optimizing Survey Locations
## A Portfolio of Survey Options for Human Rights Watch London

## Project Description
Human Rights Watch (HRW) is an international non-government organization dedicated to researching and advocating for global human rights. Recently, the NGO advertised an opening for a Researcher on Racism position located in their London office. The position is a full-time, three-year, fixed term and will involve research, communications, and advocacy work on the human rights impacts of racism in key areas. Of particular interest are racism impacts felt by those who identify as Black, Muslim, and/or Roma. The advertised announcement closed on 10 April 2022, but a copy of the announcement is located in the Github repository. 

The timing is convenient because the England/Wales census data is scheduled to be released to the public sometime this year. Under the most recent update, the Office of National Statistics reported that controlled access to census data will begin April 2022. Census data provides an excellent starting point for understanding the distribution of populations of interest and generating an outreach plan. This is particularly relevant because Human Rights Watch particularly values interviewing and on-the-ground field work as a means of researching and understanding the perspectives of minority groups. Developing a survey strategy using 2011 census data would prepare Human Rights Watch for the 2021 census data release and lay the groundwork for work plans involving the new hire. 

A brief glance at the literature on racism in London shows that identification of heterogeneous neighborhoods is a crucial monitoring strategy. For example, one British study noted that “newcomers in Birmingham felt a greater sense of ease and belonging in the city centre because of its immigration-related diversity, in contrast to the more ethnically defined other neighbourhoods.” As such, a meaningful identification of areas of research interest would need to focus on ethnic and cultural homogeneity and heterogeneity of smaller geographic areas rather than the wider composition of a city. 

This project serves as a GIS action plan for the release of the 2021 census data. It identifies survey areas in Greater London which HRW should prioritize as research targets using 2011 census data. Identified areas are organized into three categories, and each category serves as the ideal location for a survey project. The first project is a survey of heterogeneous output areas, the second is a survey of homogeneous output areas, and the third is a survey of the Roma population.  This saves time in the survey design process by showing how HRW can easily identify research targets in the area using current census data. Having a GIS action plan to quickly identify research targets enables the new hire for the Researcher on Racism position to start work much faster, minimizing the onboarding process for the new hire and ensuring HRW can work with the data more quickly. It also demonstrates the utility of the Survey Model tool, and serves as an example for identifying other survey areas in the future.
This project chiefly uses 2011 output area data, which is the smallest geographic area collected by the England/Wales census. The data relevant to this project includes ethnicity and religion by output area. Hate crime data from 2012 based on antisemitism, islamophobia, and motivated by faith are also used. Those variables are used in a Suitability Model to identify output areas most useful to their corresponding survey projects. A Hot Spot Analysis is performed on the distribution of the Roam population to identify places of Roma clustering. A Build Balanced Zones analysis is then used on each area to distribute the survey work across five researchers (since the position listing specifies there are four current researchers in addition to the new hire). For the heterogeneous and Roma survey areas (which are much larger), a random sample of 500 output areas is drawn and distributed to the same five researchers. The final deliverable of this project consists of a folder containing the output areas identified using the Suitability Model tool, and an Esri StoryMap providing explanation and visual demonstration of the methodology. 

[Job Posting](https://serganttinkers.github.io/AdvancedGIS/Job_Posting)

[StoryMap](https://storymaps.arcgis.com/stories/15b6e3280a80437bbb9010d3e6d52d91)

[Folder of Identified Survey Areas](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1j8d6txF5AEnhbZam5gfHPVbewxKjyygF)

[Folder of Suitability Variable Datasets](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1bhKA59KTFbRigBYMk_FqcIVFfSBnczaR)


